# Voiceover for observational twin video snippet:
This is text used to generate the different audio tracks for the 5G4Data inServ video snippet (part of a larger video). We have used [EllevenLabs text-to-speech](https://elevenlabs.io/app/speech-synthesis/text-to-speech ) to generate the audio. The follwoing settings have been used in Ellevenlabs:
Voice: Arne´s voice (created using Ellevenlabs [instance voice clone feature](https://elevenlabs.io/app/voice-library?action=create&creationType=cloneVoice)):
- Model: Eleven Multilingual V2
- Speed: 1.15
- Stability: 50%
- Similarity: 100%
- Style aggregation: 0%
- Languague override: Off
- Speaker boost: On

## Observational Twin

### Intro
When intents, their status, and intent observation reports are stored in a knowledge base as triplets, these triplets together form a observational twin of the system at the intent level. ​

In the five-gee-for-data use case, all stored triplets follow the TM Forum intent ontology specification. As shown in the diagram on the left, all INTEND tools used in five-gee-for-data store intents and intent reports in inGraph. We also store infrastructure information as triplets in the knowledge graph. ​

The Grafana dashboards that we will show shortly are generated from this stored data. Grafana, which we use as the dashboard builder, sends sparqell queries to inGraph to retrieve the triplets that are then visualized in the different dashboards. ​

 ​### Simulator
For this introduction to the observational twin, we used synthetic data generated by an intent, and intent report simulator that we designed and implemented in the project. ​

### First dashboard
This first dashboard examples gives an overview of all existing intents, along with some basic details for each one. ​
​
### Second dashboard
We can also add more visual context. This dashboard overlays infrastructure and network intent information on a map. It shows the geographical location of Telenor edge data centers in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. It also highlights areas where intents have resulted in the creation of five-gee slice regions. A five-gee slice is a virtual network built on top of the physical network, designed to guarantee specific quality-of-service parameters. ​

### Map Drilldown dashboard ​
Dashboards can also be linked together, which allows for drill-down capabilities. From the map dashboard, we can navigate to more detailed views of a specific intent that resulted in a slice creation. This drill-down dashboard shows graphically observations of the quality-of-service parameters defined by the intent, such as latency and bandwidth guarantees. ​

### Map Drilldown datacenter ​
From the map view, it is also possible to select a specific data center and see all intents related to it. We can then drill down even further to view detailed metrics for each of those intents. ​

### Endnote
Note that these are just a few examples. Many other types of dashboards can be created depending on the needs of the use case. ​